Work through the following materials, recording answers to the questions so that you can bring them to class and submit them for review.

Chapter 1

Compare and contrast data, databases, database (management) systems and information systems.
   Data: Recordable "facts"
   Databases: A collection of related data
   DMSs: A way to create and manage multiple databases
   ISs: General systems that bring value through use of information

Compare and contrast database systems with the following, using the main characteristics of the database approach in your discussion.
   Data structures and algorithms
   Traditional file systems
      Databases are self-describing, separate the data from programs, support multiple views, and are shared.  Structures and algorithms do not have these functionalities.

Identify the stakeholders of database systems
   The person inputting the information, the person retrieving the information, the person using the information
   
Chapter 2

Explain the significance of the categories of data models. Which type of model is displayed in Figure 2.1?
   High-level/Conceptual: Close to the way users understand data
   Mid-level/Representational: Easily understood by users but not greatly abstracted from a machine's storage methods
   Low-level/Physical: Close to the way machines store data
   Figure 2.1 shows a low-level model.
   
Explain the structure and significance of the three-schema architecture.
   The Three-Schema Architecture has three schema definition levels-
      The Internal Level: Describes the physical storage structure
      The Conceptual Level: Describes the entire structure in slightly abstract ways, hiding the physical storage structure but showing the database functionality for all user groups
      The External Level: Describes the portion of the database with which the user is interacting in a way that is largely representational
   This structure is in place so the different areas of conceptualization of a DBMS can be physically represented.
   
Explain the tiers used in a typical web-based information system.
   The client communicates with an application server, which communicates with both the client and the database, which is communicating with the application server.  The client runs interface programs, the application server runs application programs, performs security functions, and stores buisness rules, and the database server stores data and provides it to the application server.
